For many structure data problems.
It turns out that creating brand new
training examples is difficult, but
there's something else you could do which
is to take existing training examples and
figure out if there are additional
useful features you can add to it.
Let's take a look at an example.
Let me use an example of restaurant
recommendations where if you're
running an app that has to
recommend restaurants to users that
may be interested in checking
out certain restaurants.
One way to do this would be to have a set
of features for each user of each person,
and a set of features for each
restaurant that then get fed into some
learning algorithms, say a neural
network and then your network,
whose job it is to predict whether or
not this is a good recommendation,
whether to recommend this
restaurant to that person.
In this particular example,
which is a real example,
error analysis showed that the system
was unfortunately frequently
recommending to vegetarians restaurants
that only had meat options.
There were users,
they were pretty clearly vegetarian based
on what they had ordered before and
the system was still sending to them maybe
a hot new restaurant that they recommended
because there's a hot new restaurant, but
it didn't have good vegetarian options.
So this wasn't a good experience for
anyone and
there was a strong desire to change this.
Now, I didn't know how to
synthesize new examples of users or
new examples of restaurants
because this application had
a fixed poor of users and
there are only so many restaurants.
So rather than trying to use data
augmentation to create brand new people or
restaurants to feed to the training set,
I thought it was more fruitful to see if
there were features to add to either the
person inputs or to the restaurant inputs.
Specifically one feature you can
consider adding is a feature that
indicates whether this person
appears to be vegetarian.
And this doesn't need to be
a binary value feature 0 1.
It could be soft features such as
a percentage of fruit order that was
vegetarian or some other measures of
how likely they seem to be vegetarian.
And a feature to add on
the restaurant side would be.
Does this restaurant have
vegetarian options or
good vegetarian options based on the menu.
For structure data problems,
usually you have a fixed set of users or
a fixed set of restaurants or
fixed set of products,
making it hard to use data augmentation or
collect new data from new
users that you don't have yet
on restaurants that may or may not exist.
Instead, adding features,
can be a more fruitful way to
improve the performance of
the algorithm to fix problems
like this one,
identify through error analysis.
Additional features like these,
can be hand coded or they could in turn be
generated by some learning algorithm,
such as having a learning average home,
try to read the menu and
classify meals as vegetarian or not, or
having people called this manually could
also work depending on your application.
Some other food delivery examples,
we found that there were some users that
would only ever order a tea and coffee and
some users are only ever order pizza.
So if the product team wants to
improve the experience of these users,
a machine learning team might ask
what are the additional features we
can add to detect who are the people
that only order tea or coffee or
who are the people that only ever or
the pizza and enrich the user features.
So as the hope the learning algorithm
make better recommendations for
restaurants that these
users may be interested in.
Over the last several years,
there's been a trend in product
recommendations of a shift from
collaborative filtering approaches to
what content based filtering approaches.
Collaborative filtering approaches
is loosely an approach that looks at
the user, tries to figure out
who is similar to that user and
then recommends things to you
that people like you also liked.
In contrast, a content based filtering
approach will tend to look at you
as a person and look at the description
of the restaurant or look at the menu
of the restaurants and look at other
information about the restaurant,
to see if that restaurant is
a good match for you or not.
The advantage of content based filtering
is that even if there's a new restaurant
or a new product that hardly anyone
else has liked by actually looking at
the description of the restaurant,
rather than just looking at who else
like the restaurants, you can more
quickly make good recommendations.
This is sometimes also called
the Cold Start Problem.
How do you recommend a brand new product
that almost no one else has purchased or
like or dislike so far?
And one of the ways to do that is to make
sure that you capture good features for
the things that you
might want to recommend.
Unlike collaborative filtering, which
requires a bunch of people to look at the
product and decide if they like it or not,
before it can decide whether a new user
should be recommended the same product.
So data iteration for structured
data problems may look like this.
You start out with some model, train the
model and then carry out error analysis.
Error analysis can be harder on
structured data problems if there is no
good baseline such as human level
performance to compare to, and
human level performance is hard for
structure data because it's really
difficult for people to recommend
good restaurants even to each other.
But I found that error analysis can
discover ideas for improvement,
so can user feedback and so
can benchmarking to competitors.
But through these methods,
if you can identify a academy or
a certain type of tag associated your
data that you want to drive improvement,
then you may be able to go back
to select some features to add,
such as features to figure out who's
vegetarian and what restaurants have
good vegetarian options that would
help you to improve your model.
And because the specific application may
have only a finite list of users and
restaurants, the users and restaurants
you have maybe all the data you have,
which is why adding
features to the examples.
You have maybe a more fruitful approach
compared to trying to come up with
new users or new restaurants.
And of course I think features
are a form of data to which
is why this form of data
iteration where error analysis
helps you decide how to
modify the features.
That can be an efficient way as
well of improving your learning
albums performance.
I know that many years ago before the rise
of deep Learning, part of the hope for
deep learning was that you don't have
to hand design features anymore.
I think that has for the most part come
true for unstructured data problems.
So I used to hand design features for
images.
I just don't do that anymore.
Let the learning I won't figure it out.
But even with the rise
of modern deep learning,
if your dataset size isn't massive,
there is still designing of features
driven by error analysis that can be
useful for many applications today.
The larger data set, the more
likely it is that a pure enter and
deep learning album can work.
But for anyone other than the largest tech
companies and sometimes even them for
some applications, designing features,
especially for structured data,
problems can still be a very important
driver of performance improvements.
Maybe just don't do that for
unstructured data in the as much because
learning items are very good and
learning features automatically for
images, audio and for a text maybe.
But for structure data is okay to
go in and work on the features.